---
description: How transactions are structured on SparqNet
---

# Transaction structure

Depending on the origin of the transaction, it'll contain data that comes from RLP, the DB, or is created independently.

#### RLP Data

This data is decoded from the RLP structure and/or generated by Secp256k1 at the point of building the transaction and includes the following elements:

* to - address that will receive funds.
* value - transaction value in its lowest unit, e.g. "satoshi", "wei", etc. - "100000000" satoshis would be 1.0 BTC, "5000000000" wei would be 0.000000005 ETH (or 5 gwei).
* data - arbitrary data field, generally used in contracts.
* chainId - unique blockchain ID where the transaction is made, e.g. "43114" = Avalanche C-Chain, "43113" = Avalanche Fuji Testnet.
* nonce - number of the transaction made under the "from" account (starts at 0). It always starts at 0, so a nonce of "4" means this would be the fifth transaction made by the given address
* gas (aka "Gas Limit") - maximum gas units that the transaction will use, in Wei (e.g. "21000"). If the transaction uses more than this limit, it will automatically fail. The original transaction value won't be spent, but what was already spent as gas is lost.
* gasPrice - value paid by every unit of gas, in Gwei (e.g. "15" = 15000000000 Wei). The total transaction fee is calculated as (gas \* gasPrice), e.g. 21000 \* 15000000000 = 0.000315 ETH
* Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) signature for validating transaction integrity, split in three:
*
  * v - recovery ID (1 hex byte)
  * r - first half of the ECDSA signature (32 hex bytes)
  * s - second half of the ECDSA signature (32 hex bytes)

#### DB/Independent Data

This data is created outside the RLP structure, generally coming from the DB or created independently, and it includes:

* `blockIndex` - transaction position index inside the block, starting with 0 (e.g. "4" means it's the fifth transaction in the block)
* `from` - address that will send the funds
* `callsContract` - indicates whether the transaction calls an external contract or not.
* `hasSig` - shows if the transaction has an ECDSA signature or not. This part isn’t stored in the database and it’s only used during transaction creation.
* `inBlock` - indicates if the transaction is included in a block or not. Needs at least one confirmation in the network
* `verified` – shows whether the transaction is verified or not.

`blockIndex` and `inBlock` are set in `State::processNewBlock` and `State::processNewTransaction`, respectively.
